Evaluation examples (#38)
thesis20/report: sections/experiments/datasets.tex

    \label{eqn:f1}
    F1 = \frac{2*Precision(L)*Recall(L)}{Precision(L)+Recall(L)}
\end{equation}

> To give an example of the calculation of Precision(L), Recall(L) and F1-measure, a top $k$ set and a relevant item set is defined to be used for the calculation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To give an example of the calculation of Precision(L), Recall(L) and F1-measure, a top $k$ set and a relevant item set is defined to be used for the calculation.
```

Reviewer: smid lige en ref en til din equation

\begin{align}

>     \text{Relevant-items} = \{item1, item3, item4, item5,\nonumber \\

Reviewer: tænker sættene her i equation nok skal hedde L(U) og T(u) når vi bruger det nedenunder til at beskrive dem

>     \text{Relevant-items} = \{item1, item3, item4, item5,\nonumber \\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \text{Relevant-items} = \{item1, \: item3, \: item4, \: item5,\nonumber \\
```

     item6\} \nonumber \\

>     \text{Top-items} = \{item1, item2, item3, item4\}\label{eqn:item-lists}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \text{Top-items} = \{item1, \: item2, \: item3, \: item4\}\label{eqn:item-lists}
```

\end{align}

> The intersection between the top-k set, L(u), and the relevant items, T(u), is a set containing three items $\{item1, item3, item4\}$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The intersection between the top $k$ set $L(u)$, and the relevant items $T(u)$, is a set containing three items $\{item1, item3, item4\}$.
```

> The lengths of the L(u) and T(u) sets in this example are both four and five respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The lengths of the $L(u)$ and $T(u)$ sets in this example are four and five respectively.
```

> These values are then plotted into the equations to get the precion and recall values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These values are then plotted into the equations to get the precision and recall values.
```

Note that for this example there is only a single user.
\begin{align*}
    Precision(L) = \frac{1}{1} \sum\limits_{u \epsilon 1}\frac{3}{4} = 0.75\\
    Recall(L) = \frac{1}{1} \sum\limits_{u \epsilon 1} \frac{3}{5} = 0.60
\end{align*}

> These values can then be used to calculate the F1-score.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These values can then be used to calculate the F1-score according to \autoref{eqn:f1}.
```

Once the AP is calculated for a single user $u_a$, MAP@N for a recommender system is defined through \autoref{eq:map}, where $U$ is the set of all users: 
\begin{equation}
    \label{eq:map}
    MAP = \frac{\sum\limits_{u=1}^{|U|} AP_u}{|U|}
\end{equation}
To show an example of how to calculate AP and MAP, the sets defined in \autoref{eqn:item-lists} are used once again.
Here we have that $N$ is 4 as that is the length of the recommendation list.
\begin{align}
    AP = \frac{(\frac{1}{1}*1+\frac{1}{2}*0+\frac{2}{3}*1+\frac{3}{4}*1)}{4} = 0.604 \label{eqn:ap-example}
\end{align}
The Precision@n from $n=1$ to $N$, multiplied by 1 if item $n$ is relevant and 0 if not, are all summed together in the numerator as seen in \autoref{eqn:ap-example}.

> The value of that is then divided by the minimum of either $N$ of the length of the relevant item set for the user, which in this case is $N$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resulting value is then divided by the minimum of either $N$ or the length of the relevant item set for the user, which in this case is equal to $N$.
```

> To find the MAP value, the AP values are simply summed together for each user in $U$ and divideed by $|U|$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find the MAP value, the AP values are simply summed together for each user in $U$ and divided by $|U|$.
```

In this example we only have a single user, so the MAP is the same as the AP.
\\\\
Finally, some of the papers use the Discounted Cumulative Gain (DCG) metric or the normalized version NDCG.
Assuming each user $u$ has a gain $g_{ui}$ from being recommended item $i$, then the average DCG for a list of $J$ items is defined in \autoref{eqn:dcg}, where $i_j$ is the item at position $j$ in the list, and the logarithm base is a free parameter, where $2$ is most commonly used to ensure all positions are discounted.
This metric also rewards lists that frontload relevant items.
\begin{equation}
    \label{eqn:dcg}
    DCG = \frac{1}{|U|} \sum\limits_{u=1}^{|U|} \sum\limits_{l = 1}^{|L|} \frac{g_{ui_l}}{log_b (l+1)}
\end{equation}
NDCG is defined in \autoref{eqn:ndcg}, where $DCG*$ is the ideal DCG, which is defined by sorting the DCG vector such that the most relevant items appear in the start of the list\cite{dcgpaper}, resulting in the biggest possible DCG value.
\begin{equation}
    \label{eqn:ndcg}
    NDCG = \frac{DCG}{DCG*}
\end{equation}
\\\\
Once again the sets in \autoref{eqn:item-lists} can be used to give an example of how to calculate DCG and NDCG.

> In the example, the gain $g_ui$ is set to be $1$ when a relevant item is being recommended, and $log_2$ is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example, the gain $g_{ui}$ is set to be $1$ when a relevant item is being recommended, and $log_2$ is used.
```

> Again, there is only a single user which makes the calculation quite simple

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Again, there is only a single user which makes the calculation quite simple.
```

\begin{align*}
    DCG = \frac{1}{1} &\left (\frac{1}{log_2 (1+1)} + \frac{0}{log_2 (2+1)} \right.\\
    & \left.+ \frac{1}{log_2 (3+1)} + \frac{1}{log_2 (4+1)}\right) \\
    & = 1.93
\end{align*}
In the example the first recommended item is relevant, the second is not, and the third and fourth are relevant.

> Then the DCG* is calculated which is done by sorting the recommendation set so the most relevant items comes first, resulting in the biggest possible DCG value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then the DCG* is calculated which is done by sorting the recommendation set such that the most relevant items come first, resulting in the largest possible DCG value.
```
